OIT HPSC Genomics Service
=========================

This repo contains a set of scripts for processing sequencing results from the Illumina MiSeq and NovaSeq instruments. These scripts do the following:

1. Check the raw data directories for new sequencing runs.
1. Create a new output directory for each sequencing run (see directory structure below).
1. Run `bcl2fastq` to convert raw BCL data to FASTQ sequence data.
1. Extract summary statistics as CSV files.


Data Directory structure
------------------------

[TODO] Update this

    gensvc/
        MiSeqRuns/                 # raw data directory
            <RUN_DIR>/
        NovaSeqRuns/               # raw data directory
            <RUN_DIR>/
        processed/                 # outputs will go here
            <RUNID>/
                <TIMESTAMP>/
                    <RUN_DIR>/     # symlink
                    <OUT_DIR>/     # directory
                    <SAMPLE_SHEET> # csv file
        logs/
            submit.log             # tracks submission of conversion job from src/launchconvert.sh
            convert.log            # tracks conversion jobs from src/convert.slurm


CLI
------------------------------------------------------------

In general, the CLI is built around the *run ID*, which is generated by the Illumina instrument and is the same as the name of the run directory.

How do you find the run ID?

```
gensvc ls
```

What about for new sequencing projects that have not been started yet (and therefore have no run directory)? This is really only relevant for creating (and validating) new sample sheets.


Overview of scripts [DEPRECATED]
-------------------

`src/launchconvert2.sh`
: This script is intended to be run automatically via cron. It checks for new
  sequencing runs and submits conconversion jobs for new runs.
    
`src/convert.slurm`
: This is the primary script for converting sequencing data. It is a wrapper
  for all of the automated processing functions.

`src/extract-bcl2fastq-stats.py`
: This script extracts tables from the `bcl2fastq` summary statistics (html)
  and converts them to CSV files that can be shared with users.

More information about each specific script is available via the help `-h`
option:

```
<script> -h
```


Roadmap
-------

- [ ] [#1][] list all sequencing runs and current "status", which can be:
    - copy: complete
    - BCL Convert: {submitted,inprogress,complete}
    - transfer: complete
    - email confirmation: complete
    - `status` is prob part of the `core_facility` module and is completely
      separate from the `data.illumina` module because knowing the 'status' of
      a run depends on the data structure that the core facility uses
- [ ] [#2][] map user info to run
- [ ] [#3][] add `README` to transfer directories
- [ ] [#4][] create templates (jinja?) for per-run, per-project scripts (e.g., fastqc)
- [ ] [#5] ...


<!-- END -->
