# UTK Genomics Core Sequencing data

For questions regarding sequencing and library preparation, please contact the
Genomics Core Facility at <genomicscore@utk.edu>. For questions regarding data
transfer or downstream bioinformatic analysis, contact OIT HPSC Bioinformatics
Computing Support at <bcs@utk.edu>.

**Methods**

Fastq files were generated with the Illumina BCL Convert(tm) software, which
converts the Binary Base Call (BCL) files produced by Illumina(tm) instruments
to FASTQ files. The BCL Convert [support pages](https://support.illumina.com)
provide additional resources. These resources include training, compatible
products, and other considerations. Always check support pages for the latest
versions.

**Directory Structure**

    fastq/             # Gzipped fastq files  
    SummaryStatistics/ # Generated by BCLConvert  
	  
**Acknowledgements**

Acknowledging the Genomics Core and OIT HPSC in publications using data
produced here helps maintain internal funding for those services. Please
consider acknowledging the Core and HPSC in the Methods and/or Acknowledgements
section(s) of your publications. Example text is included below.

> Sequencing was performed on the Illumina [iSeq|NextSeq|NovaSeq] at the
> University of Tennessee Genomics Core Facility.

> A portion of the computational work was performed in collaboration with High
> Performance and Scientific Computing (HPSC) staff at the University of
> Tennessee, Knoxville, using the "Infrastructure for Scientific Applications
> and Advanced Computing -- Next Generation" (ISAAC-NG) cluster.
